Interview Questions:
1) Basic Commands (20 Questions):
2) What does the pwd command do?
3) How can you list all files in a directory using Linux?
4) Explain the whoami command and its usage.
5) How can you display the current date and time in Linux?
6) What is the difference between date +%H and date +%h?
7) How do you clear the terminal?
8) What’s the difference between ls and ls -lh?
9) How can you show hidden files in Linux?
10) What is the difference between ls -ltr and ls -lt?
11) What is the significance of using the / symbol in Linux paths?
12) How can you navigate to the root directory from any location in Linux?
13) Explain the use of cd .. and cd /path/.
14) What does the cp command do, and how do you copy a file to a different directory?
15) How can you rename a file using the mv command?
16) How do you display the first 10 lines of a file using Linux?
17) What is the difference between head and tail commands?
18) Explain how the touch command works.
19) What does cat do when used with a file?
20) What is the purpose of the rm command, and how can you use it to remove directories recursively?
21) Explain the concept of using wildcards in Linux commands (e.g., ls *x).




File Handling (20 Questions):
1) How do you concatenate and display the content of multiple files in Linux?
2) What is the difference between more and less when viewing file content?
3) How do you search for a specific word in a file using grep?
4) What is the benefit of using egrep over grep?
5) How can you create multiple files with a single command?
6) Explain the difference between cp and mv commands.
7) How can you compare two files and find the differences?
8) Explain the command to compress and decompress a file using gzip.
9) How do you extract a tar archive in Linux?
10) Explain how you can sort the content of a file and find unique values using sort and uniq.
11) What is the purpose of split in Linux?
12) How can you display the total number of lines, words, and characters in a file using a single command?
13) How do you remove duplicate lines in a sorted file?
14) What does the find command do, and how can you use it to locate a file in the current directory?
15) How do you append the output of a command to an existing file using the >> operator?
16) What are the differences between diff and cmp when comparing files?
17) How do you handle large log files efficiently using tail -f?
18) What does the sed command do in Linux?
19) How do you use tr to translate characters in a file?
20) Explain the use of awk in manipulating CSV files.



Networking and Cloud-Related Commands (20 Questions):
1) How can you download a file from the internet using wget?
2) What is the purpose of curl, and how can you make an API call with it?
3) Explain how you can connect to a remote server using ssh.
4) How do you securely copy files between a local machine and a remote server using scp?
5) What is the function of the ping command?
6) How can you trace the route taken by packets to a destination using traceroute?
7) What is the difference between wget and curl?
8) How can you display your network configuration using ifconfig?
9 )How can you check if a port is open on a remote server using telnet?
10) What is the use of netstat in Linux?
11) How can you set up a cron job to run a network-related task periodically?
12) How do you check for active network connections in Linux?
13) What command can be used to send data between two networked Linux machines?
14) How do you update a package repository in Ubuntu?
15) Explain how systemctl is used to manage services in Linux.
16) What is the purpose of rpm and yum in RedHat-based distributions?
17) How can you schedule tasks to run at a specific time using at?
18) What does ufw do in Linux, and how can you allow a specific port through the firewall?
19) How do you install a package using apt in Ubuntu?
20) How can you display the status of a service in Linux?